.TH rig-monitors-process 7 "May 2023"

.SH NAME
rig monitor process - Watch a process for a change in state or resource consumption

.SH DESCRIPTION
The process monitor allows users to watch a process, or set of processes, for changes in
their state and/or for reaching certain resource consumption thresholds.

Processes may be specified either by PID or by name.

.SH USAGE
The process monitor requires at least one process name or PID, and at least one metric
to watch:

.LP
  monitors:
    process:
      procs: 24601
      cpu_percent: 50
.LP

.SH FIELDS
The process monitor supports the following fields as part of its configuration:
.TP
.B procs
Required. Specify the name or PID of the process (or processes) to monitor. If given
a name that matches multiple processes, all matched processes will be watched independently.

Accepts: string, integer, or list of strings and integers
.TP
.B cpu_percent
The threshold amount of total cpu time consumed by the process to trigger on, expressed
as a percentage.

Accepts: integer
.TP
.B memory_percent
The threshold amount of total memory consumed by the process to trigger on.

Values may use the common K, M, G, or T suffixes.

Accepts: string
.TP
.B rss
The threshold amount of resident set size of the process to trigger on.

Values may use the common K, M, G, or T suffixes.

Accepts: string
.TP
.B vms
The threshold virtual memory size of the process to trigger on.

Values may use the common K, M, G, or T suffixes.

Accepts: string
.TP
.B state
The state of the process to trigger - either when the process enters the given state,
or leaves a desired state.

The states that can be monitored are defined below - users may specify the name or short-hand
in the value of this field.

        NAME                SHORT HAND          DESCRIPTION
        running             R, run              The process is actively running
        sleeping            S, sleep            The process is currently sleeping
        stopped             T, stop             The process has been stopped (SIGSTOP)
        uninterruptible     D, UN, disk_sleep   Process is in uninterruptible sleep
        zombie              Z                   Process is a zombie


The default behavior of process monitors using the state field is to trigger when the
process \fBenters\fR the specified state. For example, setting this to 'D' will cause
the monitor to trigger the rig only when the process enters an uninterruptible sleep.

This can be inverted however, by prefixing a '!' before the name or short hand for this value.
For example using '!sleeping' will trigger the rig whenever the process is \fBnot\fR sleeping.

Note: if the value of this is set to '!running', the rig will \fBnot\fR be triggered when the
process is sleeping, as it is common for "processes that are running" to frequently sleep. The
rig \fBwill\fR trigger however if the process exits.

Accepts: string

.SH EXAMPLES
A basic configuration that watches a single process for cpu or memory consumption:

.LP
  monitors:
    process:
      procs: 24601
      cpu_percent: 75
      memory_percent: 50
      rss: 4G
.LP

The following configuration will watch multiple processes by both PID and process name
to stop running:

.LP
  monitors:
    process:
      procs:
        - 24601
        - javert
      state: "!running"
.LP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rig-create (1)
.BR ps(1)

.SH MAINTAINER
.nf
Jake Hunsaker <jhunsake@redhat.com>
.fi