.TH rig-monitors-logs 7 "May 2023"

.SH NAME
rig monitor logs - Monitor log files and journals for matching content

.SH DESCRIPTION
The logs monitor allows users to trigger data collection based on the appearance of specific
message(s) in specific log files or journals, which is likely the easiest way to identify when
a problem condition has been hit.

Users may provide either exact messages to match, or provide message patterns to allow for flexibility
in the way a log message might appear.

.SH USAGE
The logs monitor requires at a minimum the message field to define what log message to look for:

.LP
  monitors:
    logs:
      message: "this is my test message"
.LP

By default this monitor will watch well-known logs and journals, but this may be more specifically
defined by users. See FIELDS for more information.

.SH FIELDS
The logs monitor supports the following fields as part of its configuration:
.TP
.B message
Required. Provide either the exact message string or a message pattern to trigger on.

Note: for message patterns, rig supports the use of \fBpython\fR regular expressions. UNIX shell-style
globs will not function as anticipated if they are used. See \fBpython -c 'import re; help(re)'\fR for
more information of python regex syntax.

The value passed to this field should be quoted for best results.

Accepts: string
.TP
.B count
Specify the number of times the message or message pattern must be matched. This counter is applied
across all monitored files and journals simultaneously.

Accepts: integer

Default: 1
.TP
.B files
Provide the file(s) to monitor for the specified message. These files must exist at the time of
rig creation. Non-existing files will be ignored, rather than cause a configuration error. Set to
null to not watch any files.

Accepts: string or list of strings

Default: /var/log/messages
.TP
.B journals
Provide the journal unit(s) to monitor for the specified message. If it is not desired to
watch any journals, set this to null. The default value of 'system' implies the entire journal
is watched without filtering by specific units/services.

Accepts: string or list of strings

Default: system

.SH EXAMPLES

Basic configuration that watches the system journal and /var/log/foobar.log:

.LP
  monitors:
    logs:
      message: "this is my test message"
      files: /var/log/foobar.log
.LP

This configuration uses a message pattern, requires being seen 3 times, and watches
only two specific journals:

.LP
  monitors:
    logs:
      message: "Process with name myservice-(.*)? has crashed"
      count: 3
      files: null
      journals:
        - myservice
        - another-service
.LP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rig-create (1)

.SH MAINTAINER
.nf
Jake Hunsaker <jhunsake@redhat.com>
.fi