.TH rig-actions-kdump 7 "May 2023"

.SH NAME
rig action kdump - Initiate collection of a system vmcore via kdump

.SH DESCRIPTION
Kdump is a service that collects the memory state of the kernel at the time of a fatal system error
and saves it to disk for later review - often referred to as a "vmcore". This actions facilitates
forcing such a fatal error for the express purpose of generating a vmcore at the time a rig is triggered.

Note that this action does \fBnot\fR perform any kind of validation on the local configuration of the kdump
service. Users must ensure that kdump is functional prior to relying on this action. Further, users must be aware
that initiating a kdump collection \fBwill restart the system on which rig is running.\fR Lastly, because kdump requires
that the system be restarted as part of the collection process, the actual vmcore file will \fBnot\fR be included
in the tar archive rig generates. It will instead be in the location configured by the kdump service.

Specifically, this action leverages a system's /proc/sysrq-trigger feature in order to artificially
induce a kernel panic.

.SH USAGE
This action requires an explicit setting of the 'enabled' setting to ensure that the use of this
action is strictly intentional:

.LP
  actions:
    kdump:
      enabled: True
.LP

.SH FIELDS
The kdump action supports the following fields as part of its configuration:

.TP
.B enabled
Required. This field must be set to True in order for this action to be used.

Accepts: bool

Default: False
.TP
.B sysrq
If set, write this value to /proc/sys/kernel/sysrq which may influence the behavior of the sysrq key.

Accepts: integer

Default: null

.SH EXAMPLES

Basic configuration which also enables the sysrq function if presently disabled:
.LP
  actions:
    kdump:
      enabled: True
      sysrq: 1
.LP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rig-create (1)
.BR kdump.conf (5)

.SH MAINTAINER
.nf
Jake Hunsaker <jhunsake@redhat.com>
.fi