.TH rig-actions-watch 7 "May 2023"

.SH NAME
rig action watch - Periodically collect file content and/or command output

.SH DESCRIPTION
The watch action allows users to periodically record particular data of interest
at a set interval over the life of the rig. This action begins its collection when the
rig is first deployed, and stops its collection once the rig has been triggered.

For each file or command specified by this action's configuration, a recording file will
be saved in the rig's archive. The contents of this file will be the content of the target file
or the output of the target command, separated with a timestamp header. This allows users
to track changes in system state over a time period leading up to the monitored condition.

By using the \fBdelay\fR field in rigfiles, users may also continue to capture this information
after a rig has been triggered up to the number of seconds specified by the delay value.

Note that the periodicity of recordings is controlled by the rig's top-level \fBinterval\fR value,
which defaults to every 1 second.

.SH USAGE

To use the watch action with a standardized set of files and commands to record, user may
configure the following:

.LP
  actions:
    watch:
      use_standard_set: True
.LP

The collections enabled by use_standard_set are defined below.

.SH FIELDS

The watch action supports the following fields in its configuration:
.TP
.B files
Specify the file or files to record. This field is a list of dictionaries that take the keys of
'path' and optionally 'dest' to control what file is collected and what it is named inside the
archive.

  \fBpath\fR
  The 'path' key specifies the path of the file to record. This must be a real filepath and not
  a glob or similar.

  \fBdest\fR
  If provided, save the contents of the file specified by 'path' to a file named this in the archive.
  If omitted, the name of the file specified via path is used.

Accepts: list of yaml dictionaries with keys of 'path' and 'dest'
.TP
.B commands
Specify the commands to routinely execute and save the output of. Commands will be saved to
files named after the entire command syntax, with spaces converted to underscores. While in many cases it may not
be required to do so, it is recommended to quote all commands that are passed any options.

Note that embedded shell code will \fBnot\fR work here. If output needs to be piped or otherwise compiled between
multiple commands, provide that functionality in a shell script and have the watch action call that script.

Accepts: list of strings
.TP
.B use_standard_set
Automatically load a standardized set of file and command collections that are traditionally
useful to support organizations. Note that this is an all-or-nothing option, and specific
collections within this set cannot be disabled. Any entries for \fBfiles\fR or \fBcommands\fR for
this action's configuration will be in addition to this set, if enabled.

  Files collected by use_standard_set:

    /proc/interrupts
    /proc/vmstat
    /proc/net/softnet_stat
    /proc/softirqs
    /proc/net/sockstat
    /proc/net/sockstat6
    /proc/net/dev
    /proc/net/sctp/assocs
    /proc/net/sctp/snmp

  Commands collected by use_standard_set:

    netstat -s
    nstat -az
    ss -noemitaup
    ps -alfe
    top -c -b -n 1
    numastat
    ip neigh show
    tc -s qdisc
    tc -s class show dev $device (for any qdisc devices)

.SH EXAMPLES

A configuration in which the contents of 2 files and a command's output are collected:

.LP
  actions:
    watch:
      files:
        - path: /etc/hostname
        - path: /var/log/myservice_output.log
          dest: service.log
      commands:
        - "uname -r"
.LP

.SH MAINTAINER
.nf
Jake Hunsaker <jhunsake@redhat.com>
.fi

