.TH rig-monitors-memory 7 "May 2023"

.SH NAME
rig monitor memory - Watch system memory utilization metrics

.SH DESCRIPTION
The memory monitor allows users to trigger a rig based on the current usage of system memory,
 and/or by select metrics about memory allocation.

.SH USAGE
The memory monitor is most commonly configured to watch total consumption of system memory:

.LP
  monitors:
    memory:
      percent: 80
.LP

.SH FIELDS
The memory monitor supports the following fields as part of its configuration:
.TP
.B percent
The threshold value of total system memory consumption to trigger on, expressed as
a percentage.

Note that this is calculated as follows:
    (total - available) / total * 100

In this calculation, available memory is defined as memory that can be given instantly
to processes with the system going to swap.

Accepts: integer or float
.TP
.B used
The threshold value for the amount of actively used memory to trigger on.

This is different from the 'percent' field. 'used' memory is calculated as:
    total - free

Values may use the common K, M, G, or T suffixes.

Accepts: string
.TP
.B slab
The amount of memory currently held in slabs.

Values may use the common K, M, G, or T suffixes.

Accepts: string

.SH EXAMPLES
In addition to the basic percent example shown in USAGE above, the fields may be
used simultaneously with each other:

.LP
  monitors:
    memory:
      percent: 80
      slab: 1G
.LP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rig-create (1)

.SH MAINTAINER
.nf
Jake Hunsaker <jhunsake@redhat.com>
.fi
