.TH rig-monitors-filesystem 7 "May 2023"

.SH NAME
rig monitor filesystem - Monitor a filesystem, directory, or file for changes

.SH DESCRIPTION
The filesystem monitor allows users to configure a rig to trigger actions once a particular
change has occurred to a filesystem, directory, or specific file.

These changes are focused around disk space usage, meaning for example a file reaching a
certain size, or a filesystem reaching a low amount of available space left.

Note that this monitor does not watch the actual contents of the target - for that, users
should use the \fBlogs\fR monitor.

.SH USAGE

The filesystem monitor needs at minimum a path, and at least one defined size criteria:

.LP
  monitors:
    filesystem:
      path: /var/log/rig/rig.log
      size: 1G
.LP

This configuration would trigger the rig once rig.log reaches a size of 1 GiB.

.SH FIELDS
The filesystem monitor supports the following fields as part of its configuration:
.TP
.B path
Required. The path to monitor for size changes. This can be a directory or a file,
but the path must currently exist on the system.

Accepts: string
.TP
.B size
The threshold size of the target path to trigger on. For directories this means the total
combined size of all contents within the directory, recursively.

Values may be specified using the common K, M, G, T, and P suffixes.

Accepts: string
.TP
.B used_perc
Instead of monitoring the size of path directly, monitor the total amount of space used
for the backing filesystem, expressed as a percentage.

Accepts: integer
.TP
.B used_size
The threshold size for total amount of space used for the backing filesystem, rather than
the size of path directly.

Values may be specified using the common K, M, G, T, and P suffixes.

Accepts: string

.SH EXAMPLES

A basic configuration watching a directory growing over 2 GiB in size:

.LP
  monitors:
    filesystem:
      path: /var/log/myservice
      size: 2G
.LP

In this example, rig will monitor the filesystem backing the path specified and trigger
when it is 80% used or more:

.LP
  monitors:
    filesystem:
      path: /mnt/external_backup/
      used_perc: 80
.LP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rig-create (1)

.SH MAINTAINER
.nf
Jake Hunsaker <jhunsake@redhat.com>
.fi
