.TH rig-actions-tcpdump 7 "May 2023"

.SH NAME
rig actions tcpdump - Collect a packet capture over the life of the rig

.SH DESCRIPTION
Users may configure this action in order to collect a packet capture over the course
of the life of the rig. Unlike most actions, the tcpdump action begins its collections when
the rig is first deployed, and terminates its collection once the rig is triggered.

In other words, network traffic is recorded up until the problem a rig is configured to
watch for occurs.

Note that users may see a short delay in the setup of rigs using this action, as rig will
attempt to validate that a packet capture is possible with the given configuration prior to
monitoring for the problem condition.

.SH USAGE
The tcpdump action can be configured with as little as the name of the network interface users
wish to capture network traffic with:

.LP
  actions:
    tcpdump:
      interface: eth0
.LP

.SH FIELDS

The tcpdump action supports the following fields in order to control how the packet capture
records network traffic:
.TP
.B interface
Required. Provide the interface to capture network traffic with. This interface must really exist,
and must be usable by tcpdump. A value of "any" may be used to listen across all interfaces, however
that may render recorded traffic useless for analysis.

Accepts: string
.TP
.B expression
Provide a filtering expression for tcpdump to use, in order to restrict the amount of data recorded.
If omitted all traffic across the interface is captured, which may result in either an extremely large
pcap file, or may result in capture files being rotated frequently enough to overwrite the desired data.

See \fBpcap-filter\fR(7) for expression syntax.

Accepts: string
.TP
.B capture_count
Save this many number of capture files. In conjunction with the \fBcapture_size\fR field this allows
tcpdump to keep only the most recent (and therefore assumed to be most relevant) network traffic data.

Accepts: integer

Default: 1 (no rotated copies kept)
.TP
.B capture_size
Limit each pcap file created by tcpdump to be this size, in MB, at most.

Accepts: integer

Default: 10
.TP
.B snapshot_length
Capture this amount of \fBbytes\fR from each packet. Be careful in setting this value below
tcpdump's default of 262144 bytes as this may render captured packets useless for analysis.

Accepts: integer

Default: 0 (use tcpdump default of 262144)

.SH EXAMPLES

Basic configuration that allows for 3 pcap files, capturing from eth0:
.LP
  actions:
    tcpdump:
      interface: eth0
      capture_count: 3
.LP

A configuration that applies a packet filter expression:
.LP
  actions:
    tcpdump:
      interface: eth0
      expression: "dst 192.168.0.1 and not udp"
.LP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rig-create (1)
.BR tcpdump (1)
.BR pcap-filter (7)

.SH MAINTAINER
.nf
Jake Hunsaker <jhunsake@redhat.com>
.fi