.TH rig-actions-gcore 7 "May 2023"

.SH NAME
rig action gcore - Collect an application memory dump via gcore

.SH DESCRIPTION
The gcore action allows users to collect an application memory dump (or "core") from
a running application as a result of a rig being triggered.

gcore is provided by GDB, which should be ubiquitous across Linux distributions, so in
most use cases no additional packages need to be installed on the system in order to leverage
this action.

.SH USAGE

Users may enable this action by specifying it as an action key in their rigfile, and
providing it at least one process name or PID to capture.

.LP
  actions:
    gcore:
      procs: 24601
.LP

In the above example, when the accompanying rig is triggered this action will collect
a memory dump file from the process with PID 24601.

.SH FIELDS

The gcore action supports the following fields as part of its configuration in a rigfile:

.TP
.B procs
Required. Specify either single process or a list of processes to capture memory dumps from.
Processes may use either PIDs or process names, such that they appear in output such as 'ps'.

Accepts: string, integer, or list of strings and/or integers
.TP
.B freeze
If enabled, gcore will "freeze" the process prior to initiating the memory dump. This involves
sending a SIGSTOP to the process beforehand, and a SIGCONT after the memory dump is complete.

Accepts: bool

Default: False
.TP
.B repeat
This action is repeatable, so users may collect multiple iterations of a memory dump from the same
set of processes during its execution.

Accepts: integer

Default: 0
.PP

.SH EXAMPLES

A basic gcore action configured for a single process, 'javert':
.LP
  actions:
    gcore:
      procs: javert
.LP


Another configuration that collects a total of 3 core dumps each from multiple processes,
and sends a SIGSTOP to each before collecting the memory dumps:
.LP
  actions:
    gcore:
      repeat: 2
      procs:
        - 24601
        - javert
      freeze: True
.LP


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rig-create (1)
.BR gcore (1)

.SH MAINTAINER
.nf
Jake Hunsaker <jhunsake@redhat.com>
.fi