.TH rig 1 "January 2019"

.SH NAME
rig \- Monitor a system for events and trigger specific actions
.SH USAGE
.B rig <RESOURCE OR SUBCOMMAND> [OPTIONS] <ACTIONS> [ACTION OPTIONS]

.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
rig is a tool to assist in troubleshooting seemingly randomly occurring events
or events that occur at times that make active monitoring by a sysadmin difficult.

rig sets-up detached processes, known as 'rigs', that watch a given resource
for a trigger condition, and once that trigger condition is met takes actions
defined by the user.


.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
The following are options available to all rigs (resources).

.TP
.B \-\-delay DELAY
Specify the number of seconds to wait after a rig is triggered before running
the configured actions. Note that the rig will still trigger and stop all watcher
threads immediately - this delay comes after thread termination but before action
execution in order to avoid a possible race condition where multiple watcher threads
could conceivably trigger during a sufficiently high delay time.

Default 0 seconds, meaning execute actions immediately upon rig trigger condition
being met.

.TP
.B \-\-debug
Set logging level to debug instead of the default info level.

.TP
.B \-\-foreground
Run the rig in the foreground, keeping stdout attached.
.TP
.B \-\-interval SECONDS
Specify the amount of time to wait between a rig's polling cycles. Most rigs
monitor their resources in a flow of update -> compare -> wait, where wait is
simply sleeping until the next needed update. Use this option to set how long a rig
should wait/sleep before updating their monitors again.

Default: 1, meaning update and compare once every second.

.TP
.B \-\-name NAME
Give the rig a name, rather than generating a random one at deployment.

By default, rigs are given a randomly generated string as a name, which will appear
in \fBrig info\fR output and in the rig's socket name. Using this option will use
the provided name instead, and may be useful in distinguishing rigs when several
are deployed at one time
.TP
.B \-\-no-archive
Do not create a tar archive of the collected data after a rig has been triggered.

Normally, once all data has been collected, rig will create a gzip'd tar archive under
/var/tmp containing all the files created from the rig's actions - after which,
the temp directory at /var/tmp/rig/<id>/ is deleted.

Using this option skips creating the archive and preserves the temp directory.

.TP
.B \-\-repeat COUNT
Repeat certain actions COUNT number of times after the initial execution of the
action.

Actions will, unless otherwise specified by this option, only execute once. Using
this option actions that support repetition will be repeated an \fBadditional\fR
COUNT number of times. For example, using \fB\-\-repeat 2\fR will result in repeatable
actions being executed three (3) total times.

Not every action supports repetition - in fact most do not. See specific action's
sections for information on if it can be repeated or not.

.TP
.B \-\-repeat-delay SECONDS
Number of seconds to wait between repetitive executions of the same action.

This can be useful when using an action like \fBgcore\fR when you want to get coredumps
over a certain time period. For example, using \fB\-\-repeat 1 --repeat-delay 60\fR
will give you two (2) coredumps taken one minute apart.

Defaults to one second.

.TP
.B \-\-restart COUNT
Restart a configured rig up to COUNT number of times after being triggered.

By default, a rig will trigger once and then terminate. Using this option, an
individual rig may restart itself up to COUNT number of times, producing an
additional archive of the requested data after the triggering event happens
again.

Note that this is the number of times to restart, not the total number of times
to run. Using a restart value of '2' means that there will be 3 total archives
generated for a rig.

By default, this is set to 0, meaning terminate after the first trigger event.
Use a value of '-1' to have a rig perpetually restart itself without limit.


.SH SUBCOMMANDS

.TP
.B rig list
Show a list of known existing rigs and their status. Status information is
obtained by querying the socket created for that particular rig.

.TP
.B rig destroy \-i [ID or 'all']
Destroy a deployed rig with id \fBID\fR. If \fBID\fR is 'all', destroy all known
rigs. Note that if another entity kills the pid for the running rig, destroy will
fail as the socket is no longer connected to the (now killed) process. In this case
use the \fB--force\fR option to cleanup the lingering socket.

\fBAny data the rig has generated will be lost when invoking destroy.\fR

.TP
.B rig info \-i [ID]
Get detailed information on a rig. This information will include configuration
options, the entire cmdline string given to launch the rig, as well as information
on each action the rig is configured to take and what the expected result from those
action(s) are.

Currently, this data is written to stdout in JSON format.

.TP
.B rig trigger \-i [ID]
Manually trigger rig with id \fBID\fR. This will cause the specified rig to begin
executing the actions configured for it, as if the trigger condition had been met.

Note that this is only effective on a single rig basis, so using a value of 'all'
for the ID will not work.

.SH RESOURCES
These are the system resources that rig can monitor. There may be additional
manpages for specific resources. Where applicable this will be noted below.

Note that 'resources', 'monitors', and referencing 'a rig' as a distinct entity
all refer to the same thing.

When creating a rig, if successful the rig's ID will be printed to console.

.TP
.B logs
Watch a single or multiple log files and/or journald units for a specified
message. When that message is matched to any watched file or journal, the trigger
condition is met and configured actions are initiated.

The following options are available for the \fBlogs\fR rig:
.RS 7
.TP
.B \-m|\-\-message STRING
Define the string that serves as the trigger condition for the rig. This can be
a regex string or an exact message. Be very careful in using the \fB'*'\fR regex
character as this may cause unintended behavior such as the rig immediately
triggering on the first message seen.

Note that a small amount of transformation and testing is done on the provided STRING.
First, '*' characters are converted to the python-style regex match of '.*'. After
which, rig performs a test on if the provided message will regex-match itself, and
if that fails the rig aborts the creation process.

Aside from the conversion noted above, regexes provided in this option must be
python-style and not shell-style.

.TP
.B \-\-logfile FILE
A comma-delimited list of files to watch. Each \fBFILE\fR specified will be
monitored from the current end of the file, so old entries will not set off the
rig's actions.

Default: /var/log/messages
.TP
.B \-\-no-files
Do not monitor any log files.
.TP
.B \-\-journal UNIT
A comma-delimited list of journal units to watch. The journal is watched as a
singular entity, and will be filtered to only read from the provided \fBUNIT(s)\fR.
If no \fBUNIT\fR is specified, the whole system journal will be monitored.

Default: 'system'
.TP
.B \-\-no-journal
Do not monitor the journal.
.TP
.B \-\-count COUNT
The number of times the \fB\-\-message\fR string should be matched before the rig
is triggered. Default 1 - meaning match on the first occurence.

.RE

.TP
.B ping
Perform a simple ongoing ping test against a specified host. Pings are sent
one at a time at a defined interval, and the response is evaluated. Ping-type
rigs may monitor for number of lost packets and/or packets exceeding a specified
RTT in milliseconds.

Packets are first evaluated for loss (including timeouts), then for RTT time.

The following options are available for the \fBping\fR rig:
.RS 7
.TP
.B \-\-host ADDRESS
The target IP or hostname to ping. This is a \fBrequired\fR option in order for
a ping rig to be created.

During rig creation, a 'sanity check' ping is sent to the ADDRESS to ensure that
it is an address that is reachable on the network and that it will respond to
ICMP packets. If this sanity check fails, rig creation is aborted.
.TP
.B \-\-ping-timeout SECONDS
Specify the number of SECONDS to allow for a ping response. If a ping encounters
a timeout, then it is considered \fBboth\fR a lost packet and a packet exceeding
the RTT threshold (see \fB\-\-ping-ms-max\fR and \fB\-\-ping-ms-count\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-lost-count PACKETS
Specify the number of PACKETS to accept being lost or timed-out, before triggering
the rig.

Default: 1 (trigger on the first lost packet)
.TP
.B \-\-ping-interval SECONDS
Specify the number of SECONDS to wait between ping requests sent to the target host.

Default: 1
.TP
.B \-\-ping-ms-max MILLISECONDS
Specify the RTT threshold to allow for a returned ping request. If the RTT reported
by the ping command is above this value in milliseconds, it is counted against the
threshold of packets exceeding this value specified by \fB\-\-ping-ms-count\fR.

By default, this form of checking is disabled. Any integer value passed to this
option will enable RTT monitoring.
.TP
.B \-\-ping-ms-count PACKETS
Specify the number of PACKETS that may exceed the defined \fB\-\-ping-ms-max\fR
RTT value before triggering the rig.

Default: 5
.RE
.TP
.B process
Watch a single process or list of processes for state changes or resource consumption
thresholds. When the process enters the specified state or the specified resource
consumption threshold is met, the trigger condition is met.

The following options are available for the \fBprocess\fR rig:
.RS 7
.TP
.B \-\-proc
A PID or process name of processes to watch. If a process name is specified, then
rig will attempt to convert this to a PID during rig creation. If multiple PIDs
are found, the default behavior is to fail creation and exit. To have rig monitor
all processes found for a process name, use the \fB\-\-all\fR option.
.TP
.B \-\-state STATE
The state that a process needs to be in, in order to trigger the rig. The following
is a list of supported states:

    NAME         DESCRIPTION                      SHORTHAND
    dead         Dead - should never be seen         'X'
    disk-sleep   Uninterruptible sleep           'D' or 'UN'
    running      Currently running               'R' or 'run'
    sleeping     Interruptible sleep             'S' or 'sleep'
    stopped      Stopped                         'T' or 'stop'
    zombie       Exited, still in proc table     'Z' or 'zomb'

Users can use either the full status name, or the shorthand noted in the final
column of the table above. Both the names and the shorthand values are case
sensitive.

This can also be set to a "not" value by preceeding one of the above state strings
with a exclaimation mark (!), e.g. '!sleeping' will match any non-sleep (S) state
status for the process(es). Most shells will require you to quote the state string
when using the '!' character.

Note that using '!running' will cause rig to \fBnot\fR trigger against a state
of 'sleeping', as generally speaking 'running' processes spend much of their time
in S state, and it is assumed that triggering against such a process is not desired.

Process status is polled once every second.
.TP
.B \-\-rss INTEGER
The amount of rss (resident set size) memory usage to use as a threshold for triggering
the rig. If the process' RSS usage goes above this value, trigger.

The value provided here may be suffixed with K, M, or G to denote the IEC unit.
Rig will convert the provided value and suffix into a value in bytes.
.TP
.B \-\-vms INTEGER
The same as \fB\-\-rss\fR but monitoring Virtual Memory Size instead.
.TP
.B \-\-memperc PERCENT
The percentage of total system memory a process is consuming to use as a threshold
for triggering the rig. If the process' %mem \fBmeets or exceeds\fR this value,
trigger.

\fBPERCENT\fR may be a whole integer or a float. When using a float, the process rig
respects up to \fBtwo (2)\fR decimal points of precision. For example, using
\'\fB\-\-memperc 10.25\fR\' is the same as using \'\fB\-\-memperc 10.25678\fR\'.
.TP
.B \-\-cpuperc PERCENT
The percentage of CPU usage a process is consuming to use as a threshold for
triggering the rig. If the process' %cpu \fBmeets or exceeds\fR this value,
trigger.

\fBPERCENT\fR may be a whole integer or a float. When using a float and monitoring
for CPU usage, rig respects \fBone (1)\fR decimal point of precision due to how CPU
usage is reported.

\fBPERCENT\fR may be above 100 - as CPU usage can exceed 100 when a process is
running on multiple CPUs.

.RE
.TP
.B system

Watch the system's utilization of resources as a whole, e.g. total CPU or memory
usage. When the utilization of a given resource is either exceeded or falls below
the given threshold (determined as appropriate for each resource), the trigger
condition is met.

The following options are available for the \fBsystem\fR rig:
.RS 7
.TP
.B \-\-iowait PERCENT
The amount of %iowait as reported by the kernel to use as a threshold value.

If \fBexceeded\fR, trigger the rig.
.TP
.B \-\-steal PERCENT
The amount of %steal as reported by the kernel to use as a threshold value.

If \fBexceeded\fR, trigger the rig.
.TP
.B \-\-nice PERCENT
The amount of %nice as reported by the kernel to use as a threshold value.

If \fBexceeded\fR, trigger the rig.
.TP
.B \-\-guest PERCENT
The amount of %guest as reported by the kernel to use as a threshold value.

If \fBexceeded\fR, trigger the rig.
.TP
.B \-\-user
The amount of %user as reported by the kernel to use as a threshold value.

If \fBexceeded\fR, trigger the rig.
.TP
.B \-\-available INTEGER
The amount of available memory in MiB as reported by the kernel to use as a threshold value.

If the amount of available memory \fBfalls below\fR this threshold, trigger the rig.
.TP
.B \-\-free INTEGER
The amount of free memory in MiB as reported by the kernel to use as a threshold value.

If the amount of free memory \fBfalls below\fR this threshold, trigger the rig.
.TP
.B \-\-used INTEGER
The amount of used memory in MiB as reported by the kernel to use as a threshold value.

If the amount of used memory \fBexceeds\fR this threshold, trigger the rig.
.TP
.B \-\-slab INTEGER
The amount of slab memory in MiB as reported by the kernel to use as a threshold value.

If the amount of slab memory \fBexceeds\fR this threshold, trigger the rig.
.TP
.B \-\-cpuperc PERCENT
The amount of \fBtotal\fR CPU usage as reported by the kernel as a percentage to
use as a threshold value.

If \fBexceeded\fR, trigger the rig.

This value may be a whole integer or a float. Floats are precise out to one (1)
decimal point.
.TP
.B \-\-memperc PERCENT
The amount of \fBtotal\fR memory usage as reported by the kernel as a percentage
to use as a theshold value.

If \fBexceeded\fR, trigger the rig.

This value may be a whole integer or a float. Floats are precise out to one (1)
decimal point.
.TP
.B \-\-loadavg FLOAT
System load average as reported by the OS to use as a threshold value. If the
reported loadavg exceeds this value, trigger the rig. This option can accept
either an integer (1) or a float (1.0).

Linux returns loadavg data for the past 1, 5, and 15 minutes. The system rig
will monitor only one (1) of these intervals at a time, as controlled by the
\fB\-\-loadavg-interval\fR option.
.TP
.B \-\-loadavg\-interval [1, 5, 15]
Which time interval the rig should monitor when watching the system's loadavg.
Only 1, 5, and 15 are accepted values for this option, as that is what the Linux
kernel returns loadavg data for.

Default: 1
.TP
.B \-\-temp INTEGER
The temperature in Celsius rig should monitor the CPU for meeting or exceeding.

This option takes an integer value, though temperature data is single decimal point
sensitive, so a temperature of 50.9 degrees will not trigger a rig that sets this
option to 51.

By default rig will monitor the first physical CPU package installed on the system.
This may be changed via the \fB\-\-cpu-id\fR option. Note that rig will only monitor
whole packages and not individual cores, and that package temperatures reported are
the highest reported temperature for any core in that package.

.TP
.B \-\-cpu-id ID
If specified, monitor this physical CPU package. By default, rig will monitor
physical CPU package 0 - meaning the first physically installed CPU.

When specifying an ID here, remember that in Linux CPU IDs are zero-indexed, so the
first CPU will be ID 0, the second ID 1, and so forth.

Default: 0
.RE
.TP
.B Filesystem

Watch a filesystem, directory, or file for utilization changes. Currently this
rig is focused on space consumption, and will trigger when the specified path or
backing filesystem exceeds the defined threshold for space utilization.

The following options are available for the \fBfilesystem\fR rig:
.RS 7
.TP
.B \-\-path PATH
Specify the filesystem, directory, or file path for the rig to monitor. The
location provided must exists when the rig initializes for monitoring to be supported.
.TP
.B \-\-size SIZE
Specify the size threshold to trigger on for the provided \fB\-\-path\fR. The size
given must be an integer suffixed with either K, M, G, or T. The provided value will
be converted to bytes.
.TP
.B \-\-fs-size SIZE
Use this option instead of \fB\-\-size\fR if you want to monitor the space usage
of the backing filesystem for \fB\-\-path\fR rather than the size of the path alone.

Similar to \fB\-\-size\fR this value must be suffixed with either K, M, G, or T.
.TP
.B \-\-fs-used PERCENT
Similar to \fB\-\-fs-size\fR but instead provide a percentage value to trigger on,
when the filesystem's %used exceeds this value.

Note that using this option is ultimately the same as \fB\-\-fs-size\fR as rig
will convert the specified percentage into a raw bytes value to use for comparisons.
.RE


.SH ACTIONS
The following actions are supported responses to triggered rigs. These may be
chained together on a single rig, so deploying multiple rigs with matching trigger
conditions with single, varying actions is unnecessary.

Actions are executed based on a priority weighting system, where lower values
represent a higher priority action, and those actions with lower values are
executed before those with higher values. This is to allow more time-sensitive
actions to be taken before those that may either take a long time to execute or
are otherwise unaffected by allowing other actions to run before them. Action
priority values are set by the actions directly and are currently not able to
be modified by users.
.TP
.B gcore
Collect a coredump of a given process or processes using GDB's \fBgcore\fR utility.

Note that this does _not_ interrupt the running process(es). Cores are saved to
/tmp and will be named either core.$pid or core.$proc_name.$pid depending on if
a PID or process name was provided. This action will be executed first when a rig
is triggered and multiple actions are specified.

This action supports repetition via the \fB--repeat\fR option.

The \fBgcore\fR action supports the following options:
.RS 7
.TP
.B \-\-gcore PROCESS
Enables this action and takes either a PID or process name as a value. If a process
name is given, the PID is determined at rig creation. If multiple PIDs are found
for the same process name, the default behavior is to fail rig creation. Use the
\fB\-\-all-pids\fR option to instead use all PIDs discovered for a process name.

This option can be specified multiple times. E.G. \fB\-\-gcore 12345 \-\-gcore
myprocess\fR will generate a coredump for PID 12345 and a process matching the
name 'myprocess'.

.TP
.B \-\-all-pids
Tells this action to collect a coredump for \fBall\fR PIDs found for a provided
process name.

.TP
.B \-\-freeze
Freeze the process(es) that will be core dumped by sending a SIGSTOP prior to
calling gcore on the discovered pid(s).

If successful, then rig will send a SIGCONT after the gcore execution has
completed in order to thaw the process.
.TP
.RE
.TP
.B kdump
Generate a vmcore by triggering a kernel crash via sysrq.

Note that this action \fBWILL\fR cause node disruption by triggering a kernel panic
to generate the vmcore. This means your system \fBwill reboot\fR when this action
is triggered.

The \fBkdump\fR action does not perform any configuration checks on the system's
kdump installation. It is assumed that kdump has been properly configured and
tested prior to using this action.

The \fBkdump\fR action supports the following options:
.RS 7
.TP
.B \-\-kdump
Enables this action

.TP
.B \-\-sysrq INTEGER
When the rig is deployed, if this option is set, rig will set the system's
\fB/proc/sys/kernel/sysrq\fR to the value provided. See sysrq kernel documentation
for information on what values are supported.
.TP
.RE

.TP
.B sosreport
Run a sosreport after the rig has been triggered. Select plugin enablement options
as well as the --plugin-option from sosreport are supported by this rig.
This action should run after any time-sensitive actions otherwise specified by
the user for a given rig.

The \fBsosreport\fR action supports the following options:
.RS 7
.TP
.B \-\-sosreport
Enables this action
.TP
.B \-\-enable-plugins PLUGINS
Specifically force the specified comma-delimited list of PLUGINS to be enabled.
.TP
.B \-\-plugin-option PLUGOPT
Modify a specific plugin's runtime options. This is passed directly to sosreport
as the same --plugin-option value, which should take the form 'name.option=value'.
For example, to increase the podman plugin timeout use
\'--plugin-option podman.timeout=600\'.

If you need to pass multiple sosreport plugin options, use a comma-delimited list
here instead of specifying this option multiple times.
.TP
.B \-\-skip-plugins PLUGINS
Do not run these specified plugins. Use a comma-delimited list to skip multiple
plugins.
.TP
.B \-\-only-plugins PLUGINS
Only enable these specific plugins, disable all others. Use a comma-delimited list
to specify multiple plugins.
.TP
.RE
.TP
.B tcpdump
Start collecting a tcpdump when the rig is initialized, and stop the collection
when the rig triggers. This action will be triggered before most other actions,
but after the gcore action.

Note there will be a slight delay in configuring any rig that uses the tcpdump
action as rig must verify that the tcpdump process started successfully during
the initialization process.

The \fBtcpdump\fR action supports the following options:
.RS 7
.TP
.B \-\-tcpdump
Enables this action
.TP
.B \-\-iface INTERFACE
Starts the tcpdump to monitor the provided INTERFACE. In almost all situations
this should likely be set to a specific interface on the system, however the
value of 'any' is accepted by the tcpdump command in order to listen on all
interfaces. Be wary of using this however as use of 'any' means will make it
impossible to determine which interface a particular packet came in on in the
resulting packet capture.

Default: eth0
.TP
.B \-\-filter FILTER
Provide a filter to use with tcpdump in order to reduce the amount of traffic
recorded in the packet capture. This value is passed directly to the tcpdump
utility, and thus can be any valid filter accepted by tcpdump.

\fBFor most shells you must quote the filter string for rig to pass it correctly.\fR
.TP
.B \-\-snaplen LENGTH \-\-snapshot-length LENGTH
Set the snapshot length for the packet capture. This will truncate captured packets
to LENGTH bytes, which defaults to 262144 bytes. Using a value of 0 (also the default),
will imply a LENGTH of 262144 bytes.
.TP
.B \-\-dump-size SIZE
Limit the size of the packet capture file(s) to SIZE in MB.

Default: 10
.TP
.B \-\-captures CAPTURES
Specify the number of packet capture files to keep. If more than one (1), then
tcpdump will rotate the packet capture file when it reaches the \fB\-\-size\fR
value and keep CAPTURES number of files.

E.G. Using a CAPTURES of 2 and a DUMP-SIZE of 5, then when the rig terminates you will
have up to 2 5MB packet captures.

Default: 1 (packet capture file is replaced upon reaching SIZE limit).
.TP
.RE
.TP
.B noop

Does nothing - this action runs a no-op. This is ideally used for when you need
to test a rig's configuration to make sure a rig's trigger condition is set
properly - e.g. a regex string for the logs' rig message option.

The \fBnoop\fR action supports the following options:
.RS 7
.TP
.B \-\-noop
Enables this action
.RE
.SH MAINTAINER
.nf
Jake Hunsaker <jhunsake@redhat.com>
.fi
